
# PhysicsNeMo v2.0 Migration Guide

This document is meant to inform users of physicsnemo of high level changes
to the repository, provide a little background on why they were necessary,
and give you some guidance on updating your code.

> This guide is a work in progress.  Please come back later for more information.

## Core Reorganization

The core packages of physicsnemo have been reorganized to prevent circular
imports.  For most uses, the key changes are:

1. `physicsnemo.models.Module` and `physicsnemo.models.Meta` are now in
   `physicsnemo.core`.
2. `physicsnemo.launch` is completely deprecated and removed.  Logging functionality
   is now in `physicsnemo.utils.logging`, while checkpoint functionality is now
   in `physicsnemo.utils.checkpoint`
3. Many layer-like components have been migrated to `physicsnemo.nn`, from
   both `physicsnemo.models` and from `physicsnemo.utils`
4. Model-specific utility functions have been relocated to adjacent to their
   corresponding model.  For example, `physicsnemo.utils.domino` now is located
   at `physicsnemo.models.domino.utils`.
5. Domain Parallelism has been separated from distributed utilities to provide
   better isolation for users of just the distributed utilities.  `ShardTensor`
   is now located in `physicsnemo.domain_parallelism`.

## New Packages

Several new packages have been introduced for PhysicsNeMo v2.0.  At a high level:

1. `physicsnemo.nn` contains reusable, pytorch-like modules for building blocks
   of layers.  `physicsnemo.nn.functional` contains a functional interface to
   these layers, where appropriate.
2. `physicsnemo.domain_parallel` contains the `ShardTensor` object and utilities.
3. [TBD] `physicsnemo.diffusion`
4. [TBD] `physicsnemo.mesh`

## Packaging, Installation, and Dependencies

The core dependencies of `physicsnemo` have been identified and consolidated.
Optional dependencies are now aggressively protected throughout the code base.
Circular imports inside the code base have been fixed, and external imports
have additional requirements to be met before introducing them.

`uv` is now the preferred way to install and develop with physicsnemo. `pip`
is still a viable installation method.

## Model Standardization

[TBD]

## PhysicsNeMo Datapipes

[TBD]

## Updating your code

To update your code for physicsnemo v2.0, you will need to adjust several key
import paths (like `logging`, see above) and potentially update datapipes
and model checkpoints.

## Reporting questions, concerns, or comments

Please contact the development team via github issues on the physicsnemo repository.
